abase 
lower; degrade; humiliate
Anna expected to have to curtsy to the King of Siam; when told to cast herself down on the ground before him, however she refused to abase herself.
abash
embarrass
He was not at all abashed by her open admiration.
abate
subside or moderate
Rather than leaving immediately, they waited for the storm to abate.
abbreviate 
shorten
Because we were running out of time, the lecturer had to abbreviate her speech.
abdicate
renounce; give up
When Edward VII abdicated the British throne, he surprised the entire world.
aberrant
abnormal or deviant
Given the aberrant nature of the data, we came to doubt the validity of the entire experiment.
abet 
assist, usually in doing something wrong
She was unwilling to abet him in the swindle he had planned.
abeyance 
suspended action
The deal was held in abeyance until her arrival.
abject 
wretched; lacking pride
On the streets of New York the homeless live in abject poverty, huddling in doorways to find shelter from the wind.
abjure 
renounce upon oath
He abjured his allegiance to the king.
ablution 
washing
His daily ablutions were accompanied by loud noises that he humorously labeled "Opera in the Bath."
abnegation 
renunciation; self-sacrifice
Though Rudolph and Duchess Flavia loved one another, their love was doomed, for she had to wed the king; their act of abnegation was necessary to preserve the kingdom.
abominate 
loathe; hate
Moses scolded the idol worshippers in the tribe because he abominated the custom.
abortive
unsuccessful; fruitless
We had to abandon our abortive attempts.
abrasive 
rubbing away; tending to grind down
Justas abrasive cleaning powders can wear away a shiny finish, abrasive remarks can wear away a listener's patience.
abrogate
abolish
He intended to abrogate the decree issued by his predecessor.
abscond
 depart secretly and hide
The teller absconded with the bonds and was not found.
absolute
 complete; totally unlimited; certain
Although the King of Siam was an absolute monarch, he did not want to behead his unfaithful wife without absolute evidence of her infidelity.
absolve 
pardon (an offense)
The father confessor absolved him of his sins.
abstain
refrain; withhold from participation
After considering the effect of alcohol on his athletic performance, he decided to abstain from drinking while he trained for the race.
abstract
theoretical; not concrete; non-representational
To him, hunger was an abstract concept; he had never missed a meal.
abusive
coarsely insulting; physically harmful
An abusive parent damages a child both mentally and physically.
abut
border upon; adjoin
Where our estates abut, we must build a fence.
abysmal
bottomless
His arrogance is exceeded only by his abysmal ignorance.
accede
agree
If I accede to this demand for blackmail, I am afraid that I will be the victim of future demands.
accelerate
move faster
In our science class, we learn how falling bodies accelerate.
accessible
easy to approach; obtainable
We asked our guide whether the ruins were accessible on foot.
accessory
additional object; useful but not essential thing
She bought an attractive handbag as an accessory for her dress.
acclimate
adjust to climate or environment
One of the difficulties of our present air age is the need of travellers to acclimate themselves to their new an often strange environments.
acclivity
sharp upslope of a hill
The car could not go up the acclivity in high gear.
accolade
award of merit
In Hollywood, an "Oscar" is the highest accolade.
accord
agreement
She was in complete accord with the verdict.
accost
approach and speak first to a person
When the two young men accosted me, I was frightened because I thought they were going to attack me.
accoutre
equip
The fisherman was accoutred with the best that the sporting goods store could supply
accretion
growth, increase
The accretion of wealth marked the family's rise in power.
accrue
come about by addition
You must pay the interest that has accrued on your debt as well as the principal sum.